# rgb
We&#39;re going to explore a website that you run right on your desktop today. Use a text document to answer the questions.

1.  Open the index.html file inside of the rgb folder. 

2.  Play the game for a few minutes, get to know it, change the difficulty. 

    a.  How would you expand the game? What options or settings could you add? 

    Maybe add a complimentary color choice as bonus points. Add sounds for correct or incorrect chices. Animation upon winning, confetti or something.

3.  Using this documentation https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction to guide you: 

    a.  What is the DOM? A programming interface that makes is so a document can be manipulated.

    b.  When is the DOM different than HTML? HTML is one language for writing a document. Dome is is independent that is the structure of a document.

    c.  What is the state of the DOM when you first load the page? Document ready. It is ready to read the document as it loads. The document provides an object by object reference to manipulate it. It loads the page ready to use.

    d.  What is the state of the DOM if you turn off JavaScript and refresh the page? The DOM would not be accessible without the JS.

4.  Now let's explore the code. Use the inspector to investigate the HTML, CSS and Javascript. 

    a.  Which parts of UI are being generated by the HTML file? The CSS? The JavaScript?
    
    The main title of the page and headline under the RGB line, the body layout, the page breaks and ho the color boxes are laid out are HTML.
    
    The colors displayed, font styles and sizes, size of the columns and rows, different styling in parts of pages are all css.
    
    The RGB code at the top, the score and the selection of the color boxes (what colors come up at random to be chosen) and the actions when boxes are selected, are JavaScript. 

    b.  What happens inside the CSS file when you click on various elements in the page? 
        The css itself doesn't change, certain parts are overridden by other style elements, but the css itself remains. 

        i.  What elements does the CSS file change? 
        
        The backgound colors of the "square" blocks change when you Play again, if you click incorrectly  they change to black, if correct all squares change to winning color.

    c.  What happens inside the HTML file when you click on various elements in the page? 
        The headline text changes with each play again or winning click.  

    d.  Use breakpoints in the JavaScript to walk through what happens when you click on various elements on the page. 

        i.  What happens when you click on a color block? 
        
        Depending on where the code is paused, the block may still dissapear (change into the background color) if it's wrong, if you pause the code on any color block, it will not allow it to display the winning blocks or reset. 

        ii.  What happens when you click on the winning color block? 
        
        If the code is paused on any of the block elements, it will not allow the colors to all change to the winning color, it will break there.

        iii.  What happens when you click "Play again"? 
        
        It won's allow a game reset if most of the square elements have been paused.

        iv.  What HTML and CSS elements can JavaScript change? 
        
        HTML-Headline text, score.
        CSS- Colors for headline, blocks.


        v.  How does score keeping work? 
        
        Through a function with a query selector document. It uses local storage, so the score stays with the game on the browser.

        vi.  Why does it persist through closing the page? 
        
        Since it is using local storage the number stays on my device, rather than being reset if it were using session storage.

        vii.  Using this documentation: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/sessionStorage change the JavaScript file to use session storage instead of local storage. 

        viii.  What's different about the way the score is kept now? It resets to zero each time the page is refreshed.

        ix.  When you win what happens when the title changes? 

        Color changes to "Match picked color" it appears to access an api for color that changes it to the requested colot.

        x.  What does Asynchronous mean in the context of JavaScript?
        
         It allows the program to do more than one thing at a time.

        xi.  What is the fetch function inside of updateColorName? 

        It is a JS interface to allow access to the HTTP pipeline asynchtonously to get information from an API.

        xii.  What does it do? 
        
        It accesses API to get results to query. It can be done at the same time as other processes.

        xiii.  What's an alternative to using fetch? 
        
        XMLHttpRequest

        xiv.  Why use one over the other? 
        
        It is simpler and avoids callbacks.

5.  Add comments to the JavaScript code explaining what you think each function does. 

6.  As you went through this process which of the 3E's did you draw from most? How?

    a.  Curiosity, need to be curious to weed through a bunch of code like that, it's interesting to see how everything changes.
        Initiative, need to have the drive to go work on it alone.
        Deal with Uncertainty, looking at something not knowing how it will turn out, is great learning.
        Observation Skills, that seem to be the main objective of this excercise.
        Engage in Analasys, a lot of what happens when I do this, what is the outcome if I do that.


7.  Push your changes to Git.

Other Resources: 

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/sessionStorage

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Introduction

- https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Window/localStorage

- https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-devtools/javascript